# <p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="0" data-line-end="1">Amazon Fine Food Reviews: EDA, Cluster Analysis, Sentiment Analysis and Recommendation System</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="2" data-line-end="3">E-commerce is an industry that has seen an exponential growth in recent years. The consumers on e-commerce platforms like Amazon impact their operation in a very direct way through reviews. By providing a platform for customers to give feedback on their products, these companies build customer retention and loyalty and expand their customer base. User reviews affect sales, influence buying trends, and even impact supply chain efficiency. Our project aims to understand how user reviews can be wielded to understand impacts and build recommendation system.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="4" data-line-end="5">The data set for our project is Amazon Fine Foods Reviews, containing 568,454 reviews of products from Fine Foods by Amazon users between October 1999 and October 2012. It has the following columns: RowId; ProductId; UserId; ProfileName; HelpfulnessNumerator (number of users who found the review helpful); HelpfulnessDenominator (number of users who indicated whether they found the review helpful or not); Score (star ratings between 1 and 5); Time (timestamp for reviews); Summary (brief summary of the review); and Text (full text of the review). The helpfulness statistics can help identify the overall helpfulness and quality of the review, which can be used to classify reviews as good or bad quality ones. The timestamps can help order reviews in chronological order, putting the most recent reviews first. The summary and text of the review can be used to identify the name/type of the product and sentiment of the review.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="6" data-line-end="7">We aim to build a recommendation system to help users select products based on their reviews, as well as their purchasing history. The system will also aim to recommend products which are more likely to instigate sales and increase profits. Our system will be built on the assumption that users tend to choose products with higher scores and a great product score makes it more likely to be recommended to users. Also, a challenge we have noticed with existing recommendation systems is that they base their recommendations of a product on outdated reviews. We aim to solve this by considering the timestamp of the reviews and ensuring that recent reviews are given more priority when judging which products are more suitable to be recommended.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="8" data-line-end="9">First, we will carry out pre-processing steps on the data, including data cleaning, handling missing or incorrect values, and formatting. Next, we intend to perform exploratory data analysis in the form of different types of visualizations to help understand review trends with time, identify top reviewers, and identify best-reviewed products, to get an understanding of the dynamics of the data set. Then, we will use techniques in natural language processing (NLP) to perform sentiment analysis on the reviews and categorize the different sentiments being expressed by clustering methods. In the latter half of the project duration, we intend to implement dimensionality reduction techniques like PCA and t-SNE to enhance the helpfulness and relevance of the product reviews. Finally, the cumulative insights gathered will be used to develop our recommender system. Along the way, we intend to address the following questions.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="10" data-line-end="20">•   What is the relationship, if any, between review length and review helpfulness? Do the reviews change in terms of sentiment and content in the time period 1999 - 2012? - Text and Sentiment Analysis; Visualizations.<br>
•   How do we extract the description or name of the product from the text of the review, considering that we do not have product names in the data? - Text Analysis; Parsing; Keyword search.<br>
•   What kinds of sentiments are most commonly associated with certain products? - Sentiment analysis; Visualizations.<br>
•   How do we identify which products are consistently popular/unpopular over the time period? - Text analysis.<br>
•   Can we classify reviews as good quality and bad quality reviews? - Text analysis; simple classification.<br>
•   Can we identify top reviewers and their community contribution? - Text analysis.<br>
With an item-based recommender system, we intend to answer the following questions.<br>
•   Can we recommend a product to the buyer based on the keywords in a helpful, relevant review and the buyer’s search terms?<br>
•   How do we recommend a product that a buyer is searching for if it has consistently negative reviews? Can the recommender system suggest similar but higher-rated products?<br>
•   How do we build an accurate recommendation system that will suggest relevant products to buyers?</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="21" data-line-end="24">References<br>

